Okta 354451 (#2015)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/domains/index.md

| Link Relation Type | Description                                                                                     |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| verify             | [Verify Domain](#verify-domain) to verify the domain and transition the domain status to `VERIFIED`    |
| certificate        | [Create certificate](#create-certificate) to create certificate                       |
| self               | The actual domain                                                                               |

### DNSRecords object

The DNSRecords object defines following properties:

#### DNSRecords properties

| Property                | Type                                   | Description                           |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|

> | `fqdn`                  | String                                 | TXT record name                       |

Reviewer: TXT record name -> DNS record name

> | `values`                | Array                    | TXT verification value                |

Reviewer: TXT verification value -> DNS verification value

---
title: Domains
category: management
---

# Domains API

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

The Okta Domains API provides operations to manage custom domains for your organization.

## Getting Started

> Explore the Domains API: [![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/6540fce00064f4f440d3)

Reviewer 2: Can you please (1) update this collection to use the v2.1 format and (2) upload the JSON file for this collection to `okta-developer-docs/packages/@okta/vuepress-site/.vuepress/public/docs/api/postman/`

Author: added ` /public/docs/api/postman/domains.json` file in v2.1 format

"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/{id}/verify"
```

##### Response
```json
{
    "id": "OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3",
    "domain": "login.example.com",
    "validationStatus": "VERIFIED",
    "dnsRecords": [
        {
            "fqdn": "_oktaverification.login.example.com",
            "values": [
                "79496f234c814638b1cc44f51a782781"
            ],
            "recordType": "TXT"
        },
        {
            "fqdn": "login.example.com",
            "values": [
                "${yourOktaDomain}.customdomains.okta1.com"
            ],
            "recordType": "CNAME"
        }
    ],
   "_links": {
           "certificate": {
               "href": "http://rain.okta1.com:1802/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3/certificate",
               "hints": {
                   "allow": [
                       "PUT"
                   ]
               }
           },
           "self": {
               "href": "http://rain.okta1.com:1802/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3",
               "hints": {
                   "allow": [
                       "GET",
                       "DELETE"
                   ]
               }
           }
   }
}
```

> ### Create certificate

Reviewer 3: Certificate has a beginning capital letter since it is an object

```suggestion
### Create Certificate
```

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/domains/{id}/certificate" />

Create certificate for the domain.

#### Request path parameters

> Creates certificate for the domain with given `id`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Creates the Certificate for the Domain by ID
```

>  Parameter  | Description  | Param Type | DataType | Required |

Reviewer 3: add the DataType information and Required information in the Description, please!  :)

```suggestion
 Parameter  | Type | Description |
```

| --------- | ------------ | ---------- | -------- | -------- |

> | id        | `id`         | URL        | String   | TRUE     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `id`        | URL        | ID of the Certificate   | 
```

#### Request query parameters
N/A

#### Request body
The [Certificate](#certificate-object)

#### Response parameters

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> * Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000163`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000163`
```

> * Passing a non verified domain returns a `403 Forbidden` status code with error code `E0000165`. Domain has to be verified before creating the certificate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Passing a non-verified Domain returns a `403 Forbidden` status code with error code `E0000165`. You must verify the Domain before creating the Certificate.
```

> #### Usage examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Use examples
```

    }'
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/{id}/certificate"
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```
##### Response (Domain not verified)

```http
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "errorCode": "E0000165",
    "errorSummary": "Domain not verified.",
    "errorLink": "E0000165",
    "errorId": "oae6TRc74XJQ_icufbqg1sKEQ",
    "errorCauses": [
        {
            "errorSummary": "Could not verify the specified custom domain. Make sure the TXT record matches the expected value."
        }
    ]
}
```
### Get Domain

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/domains/{id}" />

> Fetches your domain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Fetches your Domain
```

#### Request path parameters

> Fetches domain by `id`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Fetches the Domain by ID
```

>  Parameter  | Description  | Param Type | DataType | Required |

Reviewer 3: add the DataType information and Required information in the Description, please!  :)

```suggestion
 Parameter  | Type | Description |
```

| --------- | ------------ | ---------- | -------- | -------- |

> | id        | `id`         | URL        | String   | TRUE     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `id`        | URL        | ID of the Domain   |
```

#### Request query parameters
N/A

#### Request body
N/A

#### Response body

* The [DomainResponse](#domainresponse-object).

> * Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000163`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000163`
```

> #### Usage examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Use examples
```

        },
        {
            "fqdn": "login.example.com",
            "values": [
                "${yourOktaDomain}.customdomains.okta1.com"
            ],
            "recordType": "CNAME"
        }
    ],
    "publicCertificate": {
        "subject": "CN=login.example.com",
        "fingerprint": "73:68:82:7B:83:2E:48:29:A5:5E:E8:40:41:80:B3:AA:03:C4:42:43:05:73:45:BC:AA:47:00:23:A3:70:E5:C4",
        "expiration": "2021-05-11T05:13:05.000Z"
    },
    "_links": {
        "certificate": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3/certificate",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "PUT"
                ]
            }
        },
        "self": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "DELETE"
                ]
            }
        },
        "verify": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3/verify",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> ##### Response Example (Domain not found)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Response example (Domain not found)
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "errorCode": "E0000163",
    "errorSummary": "Domain ID not found.",
    "errorLink": "E0000163",
    "errorId": "oaef65fglSvQSiUujoOXI_dAA",
    "errorCauses": [
        {
            "errorSummary": "Could not find custom domain with the given id."
        }
    ]
}
```

> ### Get All Domains

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Get all Domains
```

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/domains" />

> List all verified custom domains for the org.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
List all verified custom Domains for the org
```

#### Request path parameters
N/A

#### Request query parameters
N/A

#### Request body
N/A

#### Response body

The [DomainListResponse](#domainlistresponse-object)

> #### Usage examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Use examples
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains"
```

##### Response
```json
{
    "domains": [
        {
            "id": "OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3",
            "domain": "login.example.com",
            "validationStatus": "COMPLETED",
            "_links": {
                "self": {
                    "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3",
                    "hints": {
                        "allow": [
                            "GET",
                            "DELETE"
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
### Delete Domain

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/api/v1/domains/{id}" />

> Deletes your domain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Deletes your Domain
```

#### Request path parameters

> Delete domain by `id`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Deletes a Domain by ID
```

>  Parameter  | Description  | Param Type | DataType | Required |

Reviewer 3: add the DataType information and Required information in the Description, please!  :)

```suggestion
 Parameter  | Type | Description |
```

| --------- | ------------ | ---------- | -------- | -------- |

> | id        | `id`         | URL        | String   | TRUE     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `id`        | URL        | ID of the Domain    |
```

#### Request query parameters
N/A

#### Request body
N/A

#### Response parameters

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> * Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000163`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Passing an invalid `id` returns a `404 Not Found` status code with error code `E0000163`
```

> #### Usage examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Use examples
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> ##### Response Example (Domain not found)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Response example (Domain not found)
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "errorCode": "E0000163",
    "errorSummary": "Domain ID not found.",
    "errorLink": "E0000163",
    "errorId": "oaef65fglSvQSiUujoOXI_dAA",
    "errorCauses": [
        {
            "errorSummary": "Could not find custom domain with the given id."
        }
    ]
}
```

## Domain API objects

### Domain object

#### Domain properties

> The Domain object defines following properties:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Domain object defines the following properties:
```

| Property                | Type                                                           | Description                                                       |Required |
| ----------------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |

> | `domain`                | String              | Custom domain name                                                                                         | TRUE    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `domain`                | String              | Custom Domain name                                                                                     |
```

> | `certificateSourcetype` | `MANUAL`              | Certificate source type that indicates whether certificate will be provided by the user. Accepted values: `MANUAL`| TRUE    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `certificateSourcetype` | `MANUAL`              | Certificate source type that indicates whether the Certificate is provided by the user. Accepted values: `MANUAL`|
```

            ],
            "recordType": "CNAME"
        }
    ],
    "publicCertificate": {
        "subject": "CN=login.example.com",
        "fingerprint": "73:68:82:7B:83:2E:48:29:A5:5E:E8:40:41:80:B3:AA:03:C4:42:43:05:73:45:BC:AA:47:00:23:A3:70:E5:C4",
        "expiration": "2021-05-11T05:13:05.000Z"
    },
    "_links": {
        "certificate": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3/certificate",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "PUT"
                ]
            }
        },
        "self": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "DELETE"
                ]
            }
        },
        "verify": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3/verify",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### DomainListResponse object

#### DomainListResponse properties

The DomainListResponse object defines several properties:

> | Property                  | Type                                                           | Description                                                                               | Nullable |

Reviewer 3: Remove the Nullable column and start the Description with (Optional) when the property is nullable.
```suggestion
| Property                  | Type                                                           | Description                                                               |
```

| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------|
| `id`                      | String                                                         | Domain ID                                                                                 | FALSE    |
| `domain`                  | String                                                         | Domain name                                                                               | FALSE    |

> | `validationStatus`        | String                                                         | Status of the domain. Values can be `NOT_STARTED`, `IN_PROGRESS`, `VERIFIED`, `COMPLETED` | FALSE    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `validationStatus`        | String                                                         | Status of the Domain. Accepted values: `NOT_STARTED`, `IN_PROGRESS`, `VERIFIED`, `COMPLETED` | FALSE    |
```

| `_links`                  | [Links](#links-object)                                         | Link relations for this object                                                            | TRUE     |

#### DomainListResponse example
```json
{
    "domains": [
        {
            "id": "OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3",
            "domain": "login.example.com",
            "validationStatus": "COMPLETED",
            "_links": {
                "self": {
                    "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/domains/OcDz6iRyjkaCTXkdo0g3",
                    "hints": {
                        "allow": [
                            "GET",
                            "DELETE"
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

### Links object

> Specifies link relations (See [Web Linking](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5988)) available for the current status of an application using the [JSON Hypertext Application Language](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-06) specification. This object is used for dynamic discovery of related resources and lifecycle operations.  The Links object is **read-only**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Specifies link relations (See [Web Linking](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5988)) available for the current status of an application using the [JSON Hypertext Application Language](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-06) specification. This object is used for dynamic discovery of related resources and lifecycle operations. The Links object is read-only.
```

> | Link Relation Type | Description                                                                                     |

Reviewer 3: These table items need to be in alphabetical order

```suggestion
| Type | Description                                                                                     |
```

| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | verify             | [Verify Domain](#verify-domain) to verify the domain and transition the domain status to `VERIFIED`    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| verify             | [Verifies the Domain](#verify-domain) and transitions the Domain status to `VERIFIED`    |
```

> | certificate        | [Create certificate](#create-certificate) to create certificate                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| certificate        | [Creates a Certificate](#create-certificate)                       |
```

> | self               | The actual domain                                                                               |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| self               | The actual Domain                                                                               |
```

### DNSRecords object

> The DNSRecords object defines following properties:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The DNSRecords object defines the following properties:
```

#### DNSRecords properties

> 

Reviewer 3: These table items need to be in alphabetical order

| Property                | Type                                   | Description                           |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| `fqdn`                  | String                                 | DNS record name                       |
| `values`                | Array                    | DNS verification value                |
| `recordType`            | `TXT`, `CNAME`                         | Record type can be `TXT` or `CNAME`   |

### CertificateMetadata object

> The CertificateMetadata defines following properties:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CertificateMetadata object defines the following properties:
```

#### CertificateMetadata properties

> 

Reviewer 3: These table items need to be in alphabetical order

| Property                | Type                                                           | Description                                 |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| `subject`               | String                                                         | Certificate subject                         |
| `fingerprint`           | String                                                         | Certificate fingerprint                     |
| `expiration`            | String                                               | Certificate expiration                      |

### Certificate object

> The Certificate object defines following properties:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Certificate object defines the following properties:
```

#### Certificate properties

> 

Reviewer 3: These table items need to be in alphabetical order

> | Property                | Type                                                           | Description                                 |Required |

Reviewer 3: Removed the Required column and add that information to the Description column

```suggestion
| Property                | Type                                                           | Description                               |
```

| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |----------|

> | `type`                | `PEM`                                                         | Certificate type. Accepted values: `PEM`        | TRUE |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `type`                | `PEM`                                                         | Certificate type. Accepted value: `PEM`        | TRUE |
```

> | `privateKey`           | String                                                         | Certificate privateKey                     | TRUE |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `privateKey`           | String                                                         | Certificate private key                     | TRUE |
```
